OK, so we are making progress here.
I know it's been a lot of moving parts in setting things up, so that's why I'm taking my time here
because it's really important that you understand at least the dynamics of how these things are done.
OK.
All right.
So what are we going to do next?
Well, now we're ready to go back to our app module because remember, this is where we can create the
providers to create the instance of dependencies, right?
The binding of dependencies that we need for health.
So in this case, the first thing I'm going to add here for someone to say at Singleton because I want
to make sure that whatever we create here is going to be a singleton, meaning we just get one instance
of this particular item, right?
And then also, I'm going to pass here at provider or pro fights, meaning this is going to be just
something that it will provide in this case, something to the entire realm of dependencies.
So in this case, here, I'm going to create a function that will provide notes.
Now, I know very convenient.
All he's going to be used internally so that we don't have to do this ourselves.
So provide notes down.
We're going to pass here.
I'm going to say note database such.
And then of course, this will extend or note.
Dow like this, and then I'm going to say equal just to say it two notes database Dot Note Dow.
So what are we doing here?
Well, in this case here, I'm just saying that our provides notes Dow.
This is going to be internal, by the way.
OK.
When we run this app and everything is set up, it's going to go and see app module and it will go ahead
and set up a singleton which inhabit this.
Provide notes now and this will provide as no apply in actual note database at Dow because we need this
Dow.
Remember again, because this is the data access which will give access to the database.
Very good.
So that's the first one.
The second one, we can pass as many as we want here again, a singleton.
And of course, it's going to provide provides.
And then what's this going to be?
Well, I'm going to say function fun, provide.
This is the important one app database like this.
Aha.
So now we need to create the actual database.
Remember, if we go back here note database, we created a structure that will create the database.
We have an actual created database.
So now with that module, this is why it's going to provide the creation of a database.
It's going to be a singleton, right?
Just one instance that will happen and then we're going to create a database.
So to create an airbase, we need to pass the application context, how do we get an application context?
Well, we can use at, say, application contexts like this and application context again, as his name
imply, is the class that knows everything about Android application, the application class, the Android
app, it knows everything about it and has access to everything.
So we need that, obviously, to create database so that internally room will know how to create the
database.
So I'm going to say name this context, and it's going to be an actual context like this Android context
like that this one is going to extend the note database such.
OK.
And of course, we're going to set it to say what well, we want this to return the room and we're ready
to base and invoke database builder.
We're now building the database.
So to build databases, you notice again, this is why we needed a context, needs context and that
the class this is going to be the actual database class that we created this guy here, which you will
see which knows how to create database, right?
You see that these entities and so forth.
So we have to pass all that information, so let's start with the first ones, the first ones, but
in context.
There we go.
And the next is going to be our class, which is no database class that Java like that.
And we need to pass the name of our database so we can be it can be anything.
So I'm going to say notes underscore DB like this and then I'm going to say Dot outside.
I'm going to say fall back to destructive migration, and then I'm going to say that build.
So when everything is compiled, I module will be run by the hilt compiler.
It will come here in this app module is going to be single turn and going to say, OK, we're going
to run this, provide notes down to dependencies.
Right?
He's going to give us detail and then it's going to give us the database that we need to actually be
created.
So it's going to go ahead and say, provide app database and we're going to create a room database.
Using our no database class were created earlier because this is the skeleton that says this is how
it has to be constructed, right?
Database entity is the entity version and so forth.
And we have that note database now and you will see, let's go ahead.
If you go ahead here and clean, let's just clean things up.
Just make sure everything is still OK.
And you can see that app module and all of these are great out that just tells us that they haven't
been used yet.
So all of this is actually going to be used in the background.
We're not going to come and invoke any of these.
This is going to be done by the hilt libraries.
Let's go ahead and build this or rebuild.
Right now, we still have some issues here.
That's because we changed the date format in our notes screen, that's fine.
Let's just go ahead and comment this out and.
Let's go ahead and rebuild again, we just were building the whole project to make sure that everything
is OK.
And because as we build earlier, you can see now that provides notes, Dow and all of these are no
longer grayed out.
It means then everything that we need in the back end.
Hill two went ahead and created dependencies.
Everything is set up for us to use it.
In fact, if you come here to see a Java generated, if you open that you shouldn't ever change anything
here, you can see now we have these dagger healed internal healed aggregated depths in so many things.
If you open one of these, that's open.
The note you can see that we have everything set up, right?
Oh, I lost it.
Because the build went successfully, let's go back.
You can see you have to I look at that created the app module, provide database factory.
All of these classes were created by hilt and dagger.
This is good.
So all the dependencies were created in the back in the background, so we don't have to worry about
it.
Again, I understand that this is taking your time and we have to set things up.
I do get it, but believe me, this is really important because it actually saves us a lot of time and
headaches as our obligations grow.
OK, so we're getting closer to get to the point where we can start working back in code inside, I've
already seen, you know, face the main activity and so forth.